Unit 1 - Drill: What Can Data Science Do?

1. E-Commerce Company


    Widget, Doodads and Fizzbangs
    
    I have data on individual visitors' sessions (activity on a website, pageviews, and purchases, as well as if those users
    converted from an advertisement for that session. You also have the cost and price information for the goods.
    
    The question is: Which should be featured in our new advertising campaign?
    
    Questions I would ask:
    
    What is the goal of the ad campaign? 
    Are we trying to simply drive revenue? 
    Is one of the products in need of a boost in sales?
    
    Question I would try to answer:
    
    Which product nets the most revenue while converting the most when advertised?
    
    To make it statistically significant I would do a few things:
    
        Is a particular product selling more or less than the others?
        Which SKU sells the most?
        Which SKU sells the least?
        Is a particular product converting higher/lower than the others?
        Which one converts the most?
        What is the conversion average across all ads and specific to each SKU?
        Are advertisments driving sales or are people that organically search for the website driving sales?
        What page is viewed the most?
        Is there cart abandonment?
        Which page do customers spend the most time on?
        Which product would give us the most margin?
        
        
2. Web Design Company


    Steps: email/password signup, plan choice, payment
    
    On a user level I have information on what steps they have completed as well as timestamps for all of those events for the
    past 3 years. I also have information on marketing spend on a weekly level.
    
    Question: 
    
    Find out why signups have slowed.
    
    Questions I would ask:
    
    Did we implement a new page (email and username?) that slowed signups?
    Did we change the price of the plans?
    
    To make it statistically significant I would do a few things: 
    
    How much time is spent on each page?
        This will tell us if there is cart abandonment.
    How quickly does someone start and finish the process by week?
    When exactly did signups start slowing?
    How do weekly spend and signups compare when overlayed?
    
    
3. Hotel Website


    1 city, 100 hotels and you run a hotel website that ranks search by price
    
    Info: 
    
    Session, price and availability
    
    Question: 
    
    Propose a better ranking system
    
    Questions I would ask:
    
    What pages do users get stuck on?
    Do users have to click from page to page to find available hotels?
    
    To make it statistically significant I would do one thing:
    
    Add a feature that allows for the customer to sort by availability after searching by price.
    
 
4. Social network

    
    3 years of data for users with and entry for every time they have logged in, including the timestamp and lenght of session
    
    Question:
    
    Find out why customers are churning
    
    To make it statistically significant I would do one thing:
    
    How does a users usage vary over different time periods?
        30,60,90 days
    Have customers always churned or are has there been consistent churn over the life of the data?
    If there is a difference in the churn rate over time, when did it increase?
    Did the users that churned sign up at a certain time?
    Do users churn more or less if the spend more or less time on the network?
 
 
